This was a very complicated exercise with lots of moving parts. To complete the exercise, I had to
- figure out how to use Postgres with a Node application
- figure out how to pass database connection info to pods, and
- figure out how to pass secrets to pods.

## How to create a database on application launch?

I see two options for this:
  1. Create a database programatically when the application launches => have the application do the work. The benefit is that for local development, I don't need any extra setup; I can just run a Postgres container with mostly default settings.
  2. Create a database by executing a psql command inside a StatefulSet manifest => have Kubernetes and Docker do the work. This feels like a more reasonable approach, since the application should really just operate inside it's own database. The downside is that I need a docker-compose setup for local development, since I need to setup the database in a specific way before the application can use it.

=> Went with option 2.
=> I use a ConfigMap (`initdb-configmap.yaml`) to pass the sql script into a pod. I might be able pass the sql script as a file from my local machine, but that seems overly complicated.

## Transforming a Secret resource into a SealedSecret

1. Add `sealed-secrets-controller` to kube-system namespace.
2. Add a `secret.yaml` with the desired content.
3. Convert secret to a sealed secret with kubeseal.
4. Apply sealed secret to namespace.
5. Check that the secret is found in namespace.
6. Finally delete `secret.yaml`.

```
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/bitnami-labs/sealed-secrets/releases/download/v0.12.1/controller.yaml
kubeseal -o yaml < secret.yaml > sealedsecret.yaml
kubectl apply -f sealedsecret.yaml
kubectl get secrets -n main
```

## SealedSecrets do not work after cluster is shut down!

It turns out that deleting a k3d cluster invalidats all sealed secrets. That sucks.

## Running Postgres in a Docker container

1. Create a container called `db_pingpong` and set two environment variables.
2. Log in as db user `admin`.

```
docker run --name db_pingpong -p 5432:5432 -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=admin -e POSTGRES_USER=admin -d postgres
docker exec -it db_pingpong psql -U admin
```

## Postgres commands

```
create database pingpong;
\c pingpong

create table pings (id integer PRIMARY KEY, timestamp timestamp NOT NULL);

insert into pings (id, timestamp) values (1, '2021-09-04 17:16:00');

select * from pings;

select count(*) from pings;
```
